at 8 p.m. Eastern on c-span the Warren
Commission released its report on the
Kennedy assassination 40 years ago in
September of the assassination archives
and Research Center hosted a symposium
on the Commission's findings next is
David Talbot editor of salon.com
he spoke about the response to the
Warren Report at the time of its release
this is about an hour
our first speaker this afternoon is
David Talbott of salon.com who is going
to speak to us about what the high and
the mighty thought about the Kennedy
assassination
thanks Jim and thank you to all the
organizers of this conference as a as a
as a relative newcomer to this
fascinating world I've been learning a
lot I can't pass myself off as an expert
as all the other speakers have been you
won't hear anything for me about Mach
banding or Bullitt led analysis maybe
that's a relief but I am working on a
book that I think has relevance to some
of the work that's being done and I'd
love to hear from all of you I'm going
to be giving a talk that's based on an
article that I recently wrote and
published in salons some of you might
have seen it but I'll be going off
script a number of times if you have
read it and asking I'd like to have a
dialogue with some of you about this I'm
fascinated by this question of course
about what the people in government the
political elite themselves thought about
the crime of the century I think it's
the conference is well-timed of course
because once again we find ourselves in
the season of the official report the
9/11 Commission report the Senate Select
Committee on Intelligence report the
Schlessinger inquiry on Abu Ghraib among
others and once again the official
version is under fire the 9/11 report of
course has been attacked for leaning
over backwards in the spirit of
bipartisan unanimity to avoid pinning
blame on the Bush administration for its
casual attitude towards terrorist alerts
before the calamity and for sidestepping
the issue of Saudi involvement but at
least it's one a measure of public
respect due in large part to the
vigilance of 9/11 victims families and
when it comes to government inquiries I
think this is the key the extent to
which the public is involved the Senate
report on the intelligence failures
leading to the Iraq war has not fared as
well of course undoubtedly because it
lacked the same public oversight this
report went to even greater extremes to
keep
out of the crosshairs as Thomas powers
recently wrote in the New York Review of
Books no tyrannical father presiding
over in it on presiding over an
intimidated household was ever tiptoed
around with greater caution then as the
figure of president george w bush in the
committee's fat report and the
Schlesinger report on a brigade has
quickly earned itself an utterly
contemptuous response eliciting
widespread outrage for giving defense
secretary Rumsfeld and the Pentagon a
sweeping pass on the reign of torture at
the prison so it was only appropriate in
this stormy season of the official
version and its discontents that we
observed the 40th anniversary of the
Warren Report the mother of all such
controversies the vast 26 volume report
was of course delivered to Chief Justice
Earl Warren by Chief Justice Earl Warren
to President Johnson on September 24th
1964 and as we know the Warren Report
concluded that President Kennedy was the
victim of a lone unstable assassin Lee
Harvey Oswald who was of course
conveniently gunned down two days later
by Jack Ruby the Warren Commission
itself the victim of massive fraud and
manipulation by the FBI and CIA came
under immediate fire from critics with
its report being denounced as a
government cover-up by a growing army of
independent researchers some of course
are with us at the conference history
has not been any kinder to the Warren
Report which has been derided and
condemned by everyone from the House
Select Committee on assassinations the
only other federal panel to exhaustively
probe Kennedy's murder which found in
1979 that the president was the probable
target of a conspiracy Dolliver stone
and his explosive 1991 film JFK to the
History Channel which routinely airs the
even the outer limits of conspiracy
theories four decades later the Warren
Report is widely regarded as whitewash
with polls consistently showing the
majority of Americans reject the
official version of Kennedy's death but
there is one sanctuary where the Warren
Report is
stubborn ly upheld and where it's
manifold critics can expect their own
rough treatment and that's in the towers
of the medially my profession fresh from
assaulting Oliver Stone not only for his
film but his very character and let me
step aside to say this is an assault
that I have engaged in the past also
attacking the film JFK and I know David
Rowan yesterday said that he found I
think ninety percent was a David of the
film to be an error whatever its merits
as a historical document of course it
can't be reviewed as a documentary I do
think now looking back over a dozen
years later that the film has had I
would say a positive impact in the
American debate of course resulted in
the release of thousands of documents
that many of you are being are using for
your own research and I find that there
was an emotional truth in that film not
unlike perhaps Don DeLillo's excellent
novel Libre and James Elroy's novel
American tabloid so it's my feeling that
Oliver Stone has to be read as he is as
a fiction filmmaker but I certainly
think he opened the debate in a useful
way in any case the media Lee of course
were all over Oliver Stone and shortly
thereafter rush to embrace Gerald Posner
Zook case closed in 1993 making that
book a best-seller the most convincing
explanation in the assassination
historian Robert dalla called it in the
Boston Globe and the 40th anniversary of
the assassination in Dallas last
November of course sparked a new
cannonade of anti conspiracy sound and
fury in the media with ABC's Peter
Jennings leading the way this time
making yet another network news attempt
to silence the reports critics now most
of the press Lords and pundits of course
from the 1960s who allowed themselves to
be convinced that the Warren Report was
the correct version of what happened in
Dallas weather because they genuinely
believed it or because they thought it
was for the good of the country
are now dead or retired but after buying
the official version for so long it
seems that the elite media have too much
invested in the Warren Report to change
their minds now even if they're under
new editorial leadership I'll be
interested to see how much coverage the
Warren reports anniversary for instance
does get in the coming week one of the
great ironies of history however is that
while the media elite was busily trying
to shore a public confidence in the
Warren Report the country's politically
was privately confiding among themselves
that the report was a travesty a fairy
tale for mass consumption presidents
White House aides intelligence officials
senators congressmen even foreign
leaders they all muttered darkly among
themselves that Kennedy was killed by a
conspiracy a plot that a number of them
suspected had roots in the US government
itself now to be fair some high media
dignitaries themselves also quietly
shared their doubts about the official
version in 1993 CBS anchorman who's in
trouble again Dan Rather reportedly
confided to Robert Tannenbaum the former
deputy chief counsel of the House Select
Committee on assassinations quote we
really blew it on the Kennedy
assassination
thanks to tapes of White House
conversations that have been released to
the public in relief in recent years we
now know that the man who appointed the
Warren Commission President Lyndon
Johnson did not believe its conclusions
on September 18th as we've heard at the
conference 1964 the last day the panel
met commissioned member Senator Richard
Russell
phone Johnson his old political prodigy
to tell him he did not believe the
single Bullet theory the key to the
Commission's finding that Oswald acted
alone
I don't either Johnson told him I'll
defer to max Holland who of course is
with us as the expert on these tapes and
LBJ's of course opinions about private
opinions about what happened in Dallas
and I'm halfway through Max's book and
as I've told them I find it very useful
and again I want to say
that I know there's differences of
opinion here and I've already
complimented Jim Lazar on in the spirit
of I think open inquiry inviting people
with different opinions about what
happened in Dallas to be here today and
this weekend in any case we dut we do
know that LBJ had differing views than
that of the Warren Commission on the
assassination he seemed to fix on Castro
and Cuba as the source of the plot
he weighed heavily on him throughout his
his term in office and Max I just had
lunch with Max and I pointed out how
intriguing this particular statement in
his book was he ends his introduction
max does in his new book saying that
it's virtually an article of faith among
historians that the war in Vietnam was
the overwhelming reason the president
left office in 1969 a war in bitter and
disillusioned man yet the assassination
related tapes pain a more nuanced
portrait one in which Johnson's view of
the assassination weighing as heavily on
him as did the war now critics of the
Warren Report were often of critics of
the Warren Report lone assassination
conclusion were often stumped by
defenders of the report with a question
if there was a conspiracy
why didn't President Kennedy's own
brother Bobby the Attorney General of
the United States do anything about it
and all of us who know American
presidential history know that there was
probably never another brother act in
American politics or government like the
Kennedy brothers that they were uniquely
close that Bobby was the tough
aggressive protector of the Kennedy
family and of his brother in particular
and that if anyone would have done
anything to get to the bottom of what
happened to his brother in Dallas it
would have been Bobby Kennedy so why
didn't he at least publicly do something
about it and it is true that at least
until shortly before his own death in
June 1968 Bobby Kennedy publicly
supported
the Warren Report on March 25th during a
presidential campaign rally at San
Fernando Valley State College in
California now called Cal State
Northridge Kennedy was dramatically
confronted by a woman heckler who called
out we want to know who killed President
Kennedy Kennedy responded by saying I
stand by the Warren Commission report I
think he says it's an interesting tape
if you listen to it and then he says
everything will come out in the end I've
seen what's in the archives everything
will come out but in a later campaign
appearance days before his assassination
according to his former press spokesman
Frank mankiewicz oh I've interviewed
several times Bobby Kennedy said the
opposite when asked if he would be open
the investigation into his brother's
death he uttered a simple one-word
answer yes
mankiewicz recalls today quote I
remembered that I was stunned by the
answer it was either like he was
suddenly blurting out the truth or or it
was a way to shut down the question you
know yes now let's move on Bobby's
political public statements on the
Warren Report were obviously frayed 'add
with political and emotional and perhaps
even security concerns for him for
himself but we have no doubt what his
private opinion of the report was as his
biographer Evan Thomas wrote Kennedy
regarded the Warren Commission as a
public relations exercise to reassure
the public end quote
according to a variety reports Kennedy
immediately suspected a plot as soon as
he heard his brother had been shot in
Dallas and as he made calls and
inquiries in the hours and days after
the assassination he came to an ominous
conclusion his brother was the victim of
a domestic political conspiracy in a
remarkable passage that I'm sure a
number of you are familiar with but not
the public at large
unfortunately in the book one hell of a
gamble the widely praised 1997 history
of the Cuban Missile Crisis based on
Declassified Soviet and US government
documents historians Alexander first
franco and timothy Naftali wrote that on
november 29th
one week after the assassination Bobbie
dispatched a close family friend named
William Walton to Moscow with a
remarkable message for Georgie bolshakov
the KGB agent who Bobby had come to
trust during the nerve-wracking
back-channel negotiations during the
missile crisis according to these
historians Walton told bolshakov that
Bobby and Jacqueline Kennedy believed
quote there was a large political
conspiracy behind Oswald's rifle and
quote that Dallas was the ideal location
for such a crime the Kennedys also
sought to reassure the Soviets that
despite Oswald's apparent connections to
the Communist world they believed
President Kennedy had been killed by
American enemies this is a stunning
account of course with the fallen
president's brother and Widow
communicating their chilling suspicions
privately to the preeminent world rival
of the US and it does not receive nearly
the public attention or scholarly
inquiry it deserves
both Khrushchev who had been working
with JFK to ease tensions between the
superpowers and his spy chief shared
Kennedy's dark view of the assassination
KGB chairman vladimir semichastny
reacted incredulously to the news at
Oswald a man whom his agency had closely
monitored during Oswald's stay in the
Soviet Union was the culprit I thought
this man could not possibly be the
mastermind of the crime
okay the KGB chairman was quoted as
saying and according to press n Co
enough Tolley intelligence coming to
Khrushchev in the weeks following the
assassination seemed to confirm the
theory that a right-wing conspiracy had
killed Kennedy an assessment that was
shared by the governments of Cuba Mexico
and France were president de Gaulle when
briefed by reporter on the lone nut'
Theory reacted with garlic skepticism
laughing you're kidding me
cowboys and Indians in the years after
his brother's death Bobby Kennedy was
overwhelmed by a grief that was beyond
grief but the common perception that he
found it too painful to focus on the
assassination is simply not the case
my own research has shown that during
the years between his brother's death
and his own death he dispatched a number
of surrogates including mankiewicz this
press was press spokesman Walter
Sheridan his trusted investigator who
worked with him on the Jimmy Hoffa
investigation edy Guttman who had been
his spokesman at the Justice Department
and later became editor the New York
Times and John Seigenthaler another
journalist who had worked with him
closely over the years to check out
their work the work of assassination
critics Jim Garrison among others in
fact Kennedy himself owned New Orleans
coroner Nicholas chedda at his home
after the death of key garrison suspect
David Ferrie to question chedda about
his autopsy report on Ferry
and while Sheridan a trusted friend of
Kennedy's who had worked closely with
him as I said on the Hoff investigation
famously repudiated garrison in a 1967
documentary for NBC
RFK apparently still kept ties to the
garrison camp even after this according
to William Turner a former FBI agent who
worked as a garrison investigator during
on the Kennedy case in April 1968
garrison office that is Turner received
a call in New Orleans from an RFK
campaign aide named Richard lubic he
said bill Bobby's going to go he's going
to reopen the investigation after he
wins I went in immediately and told
garrison he didn't seem surprised
now sy Hersh among others so I of course
have great respect for in his book which
takes a very dark view of course of the
Kennedy dynasty the dark side of Camelot
it says emphatically that Bobby never
would have opened the assassination if
he had lived and been elected president
because of the skeletons that he was
afraid would have come tumbling out the
CIA the Mafia the women etc but it's my
feeling from the research I've done that
I think bobby was grappling towards a
strategy a strategy that he would put in
that he would implement once he was
elected president
and that the closer he actually got to
the White House and he thought it was
more likely he would have the power to
reopen the inquiry I think it became
more and more of an issue for him
emotionally and politically but I'm
convinced he was headed in that
direction
nabob II of course was not the only
member of President Kennedy's and her
circle who believed there was a
conspiracy presidential aides Kenny
O'Donnell and Dave powers who were
members of JFK's Irish mafia were in a
trailing limousine in the Dallas
motorcade both of them later told House
speaker Tip O'Neill that they heard two
shots from behind the fence on the
grassy knoll that's not what you told
the Warren Commission a stunned O'Neill
replied according to his 1989 memoir man
of the house you're right said O'Donnell
I told the FBI what I had heard but they
said it couldn't have happened that way
and that I must have been imagining
things
so not wanting to quote stir up more
pain and trouble for the family
O'Donnell told the Commission what the
FBI wanted him to blunt skepticism about
the Warren Report was a bipartisan
affair with leaders on both sides of the
aisle
araly dismissing its conclusions we know
that President Nixon was a skeptic one
of his top aides White House chief of
staff HR Bob Haldeman shared his boss's
skepticism in his own 1978 memoir the
ends of power
Haldeman wrote that he'd always been
intrigued with the conflicting theories
about the assassination and he recalls
that when the White House when the Nixon
team finally moved into the White House
he felt that they quote would now be in
a position to get all the facts end
quote
but Nixon perhaps wary of what wary of
where all those facts would lead
rejected Haldeman suggestion according
to Haldeman Nixon did play the
assassination card in a mysterious way
however against CIA director Richard
Helms long regarded by some Warren
reports Warren Report critics to have
knowledge about the gunshots in Dallas
seeking to pressure the CIA into helping
him out of his Watergate mess Nixon had
hauled him and delivered this cryptic
message apparently a threat of some sort
to hell
quote the president asked me to tell you
this entire Watergate affair may be
connected to the Bay of Pigs and if it
opens up the Bay of Pigs may be blown
this is what Haldeman told Helms in a
meeting this prompted an explosive
reaction from the CIA spymaster turmoil
in the room Haldeman writes in his book
Helms gripping the arms of his chair
leaning forward and shouting the Bay of
Pigs had nothing to do with this I have
no concern about the Bay of Pigs
Haldeman speculates that the Bay of Pigs
must have been Nixon's code for
something related to the CIA Castro and
the Kennedy assassination but whatever
dark card Nixon had played the worked
according to Haldeman he reported back
to his boss that the CIA director was
now suddenly very happy to be helpful
Nixon was not willing to publicly reopen
the box of assassination demons but many
of them began flying out when the Church
Committee began investigating CIA abuses
in the 1970s including the unholy pact
between the agency and the Mafia to
eliminate Fidel Castro among those in
Washington who were particularly curious
about the revelations that were come
coming out about the CIA and the Kennedy
assassination was George Bush George
Bush Senior as Kitty Kelly observes in
her new book about the Bush family while
serving as the CIA director in the
foreign administration Bush fired off a
series of memos in fall 1978 asking
subordinates and the agency various
questions about Oswald Ruby Helms and
other figures tied to the assassination
quoting from Kitty's new book years
later when Bush became president United
States he would deny making any attempt
to review the agency files on the JFK
assassination when he made this claim he
did not realize that the agency would
release 18 documents under the Freedom
of Information Act that showed he had
indeed as CIA director requested
information not once but several times
on a wide range of questions surrounding
the Kennedy assassination one of the
most aggressive investigators on the
church committee was the young ambitious
Democratic senator from Colorado Gary
Hart who along with the Republic has
public and colleague Richard Schweiker
of Pennsylvania began digging into the
swampy murk of southern Florida in the
early 1960s here of course was the
steamy nursery for plots that drew
together
CIA saboteurs mafia assassins
anti-communist cuban fanatics and the
whole array of patriotic zealots who
were determined to overthrow the Cuban
government the Iraq of its day Gary Hart
an interview with me said the whole
atmosphere down there in Florida at the
time was so yeasty I don't think anybody
Helms or anybody had to had control of
the thing there were people
clandestinely meeting people the mafia
connections the friendships between the
Mafia no CIA agents and this crazy Cuban
exile community there were more and more
layers and it was honeycombed with
bizarre people I don't think anybody
knew everything that was going on and I
think the Kennedys were kind of racing
to keep up with it all end quote and
Gary Hart Schweiker 'he's mind was blown
by what he and Hart were digging up
there's no other way to describe it here
was a moderate Republican from
Pennsylvania and he would be later
chosen of course as vice-presidential
running mate briefly by Ronald Reagan in
1976 to bolster his challenge against
President Ford but Schweiker faith and
the American government seemed deeply
shaken by his Kennedy probe which
convinced him quote the fingerprints of
intelligence were all over Lee Harvey
Oswald Gary Hart told me quote dick made
a lot of statements inside the committee
at the time that were a lot more
inflammatory than anything I ever said
in terms of his suspicions about who
killed Kennedy he would say this is
outrageous we've got to open this up
we've got to reopen it he was a
blowtorch heart-to- concluded that
Kennedy was likely killed by a
conspiracy involving some feverish cabal
from the swamps of anti-castro zealotry
and when he ran for president in 1984
Hart says whenever he was asked about
the assassination quote my consistent
response was based on my church
committee experience there are
sufficient doubts about the case to
justify reopening the files of the CIA
particularly on its relationship to the
Mafia end quote
this was enough to blow other people's
minds as heart including the remnants of
the Mafia family Florida Godfather Santo
Trafficante
who plays a key role of many JFK
conspiracy theories what Gary Hart then
told me was journalists cite Hirsch told
me that he interviewed buddies of
Trafficante including his right-hand man
who was still alive when Hirsch wrote
his book the dark side of Camelot he
didn't put this in his book but when my
name came up Gary Hart's name the guy
laughed he snored and said we don't
think he's any better than the Kennedys
end quote from Gary Hart I asked senator
Hart you meant that they were keeping an
eye on you as well at the very least
said Gary Hart this was in the 1980s
when I was running for president saying
I would reopen the Kennedy investigation
anybody can draw their own conclusions
end quote
Hart of course never made it to the
White House but another politician who
had been deeply inspired by JFK William
Jefferson Clinton did and like perhaps
every other man it seemingly who moved
has moved into the White House following
the Kennedy assassination he too was
curious about finding out the real story
of Dallas where the Kennedy files the
young president reportedly asked soon
after he went to work in the Oval Office
and what about that other JFK from
Massachusetts who also met President
Kennedy as a young man John F Kerry if
he's elected in November will he be
tempted to launch an inquiry and try to
find out what really happened to his
hero in Dallas Hart says he doubts it
you almost had to go through it like I
did with the church committee he told me
and get all the context otherwise you
have to be very careful about falling
into the conspiracy category I at least
had some credentials to talk about it
but if Cary were to bring it up people
would just say he's wacky he's obsessive
as as hard observes there are other ways
to kill a leader these days you can
assassinate his character and so 40
years after the Warren Report with the
country's political elite still wracked
with suspicions about the Kennedy
assassination and yet immobilized from
doing any
about it by fears of being politically
marginalized and with the media elite
continuing to disdain even the most
serious journalistic inquiry the crime
seems frozen in place it is now up to
historians and scholars and authors to
keep the spirit of inquiry alive for
decades the only public critics of the
Warren Report was a heroic and
indomitable band of citizen
investigators including a crusading New
York Attorney a small-town Texas
newspaperman
a retired Washington civil servant a
berkeley literature professor a los
angeles sign salesman the pittsburgh
coroner all of whom refused to accept
the fraud that was perpetrated on the
American people undaunted by the media
score and that was heaped on them they
devoted their lives to what government
powerful government officials and high
paid media mandarins should have been
doing solving the most shocking crime
against American democracy in the 20th
century their names Mark Lane Ray Marcus
Harold Weisberg Sylvia Marr Vincent Sol
Andrea Mary Farrell Penn Jones jr. Cyril
Wecht Josiah tink Thompson
Peter Dale Scott David Rhone Jim Lazar
Gate and Fonzie among others these names
will find their honored place in
American history it's these everyday
heroes and their successors many of whom
are here today as well whose best work
will someday come to replace the heavy
and I feel counterfeit tomes of the
Warren Report thank you
I'll take some questions but as they say
I can't get into the physical evidence
tink sure I was hired by Life magazine
from their fall of 1966
I think this genuinely had some
relevance and I we would have talked
privately about this later but why not
share with everyone else I was hired by
Life in October of 1966 and together
with dick Billings and Edie earned two
very excellent editors of life we ran an
investigation which ended up with the
first major break in the hegemony of
Warren Commission apologies that was an
issue of life which put on the cover
grounds for reasonable doubt and it was
the first fissure in the Gandy has
copies of that I bought one yesterday is
that right well it was the first fissure
in the media's sort of total acceptance
of the Warren Report now during that
investigation I was hired simply for
time reasons they could have trained up
Billings recurrent or any one in four
months time to get where I was they
didn't have the time so they permitted
me to tell them where the bodies were
buried to identify the witnesses the
places the issues the questions and I
gotta say I had absolutely total support
there were no questions about should we
interview X or Y or anything like that
there was no control on this
investigation whatsoever it went
wherever it wanted to go and it went as
far as we could go
it was unlimited now I also have to say
that the article that was published was
clearly much blander much thinner than
the than the information that we had now
various people will tell you that
Life magazine is and is an organism of
the elite and etc it had to be
controlled for
above and that's why the article did not
include everything we had that's
nonsense
there was no control from above George
hunt the editor of Life supported this
completely we had journalists who were
completely committed to it and we're
running it as hard as we could well why
did that happen well it happened due to
a kind of I think institutional defect
at life life suffered from what might be
called committee journalism at that time
in terms of any major story any major
story published by life would have had
to be signed off on by at least 10
different people the result of that
institutional defect was that any story
on any issue would be somewhat
watered-down this had nothing to do with
the Kennedy assassination it had to do
with the way life did did business at
that time and I suspect that something
like that was endemic in all the media
in other words too many people had to
sign off on something in order for
anything to be really really hard edged
etc etc now what happened that issue
came out and I think late November 1966
during the next month or so the
investigation sort of trailed off into
nowhere why was that was it because the
investigation was controlled from above
no the reason the investigation ended at
life and by the way we knew when we were
working at life that the New York Times
had 12 a 12 man investigation under
Harrison Salisbury right in the field
right and we never met them we never
knew what they were doing but we knew
they were digging right I think that
investigation trailed off for two
significant reasons one was that in
January of 1967 through the grapevine of
these critics that you mentioned David I
learned of the of the garrison investing
I told dick Billings about that garrison
investigation he flew to Norton New
Orleans and basically signed up garrison
to an exclusive contract with life for
the coverage of this investigation so I
think at that point by January a billing
certainly felt hey something really big
is going on here we've got it I've
signed it up so let's just follow that
there's another significant reason
though and before we start kicking the
media I think we got to recognize this
we couldn't take it all the way at that
point right we couldn't solve the crime
so at a certain point in these matters
in the Kennedy assassination you end up
with this level with this strata of
ambiguity which does not permit you if
you're a media editor to mount a big
terrific breakthrough story in other
words we couldn't break it and that
really is this is the simple answer now
now many people have accused me of being
a CIA agent because I worked for for
time-life was it true for a few months
you can deny it right now yeah I denied
okay and have claimed that Life magazine
through very complicated relationships
was a basically a CIA front this
accreted this of course is absolute
nonsense
I mean any journalist at that time in
1966 would have given their left arm to
breakthrough in this case and everybody
at life we had the same notion we had
the thought that maybe if we got lucky
and if we looked in the right place and
if we pulled the right thread that we
really could could break it and I think
that's that's the case throughout let me
mention only one of the thing
CBS CBS has put together a series of
documentaries on this case beginning
very early I know there was one in 1967
the
I want to particularly mention these
were basically apologia is for the
Warren Commission report even there you
find the journalists who were actually
working on the stories right
we're enthusiastic wanted to break
through etc etc but Bob Richter for
example leaked to me the the actual raw
data on the firing tests which showed
just the opposite from what CBS finally
broadcast so I think if one's gonna deal
with the media one has to recognize that
the working journalists who do the
day-to-day work within these
institutions are are as committed have
been as committed to a breakthrough in
this case as as anyone and I still don't
believe that any of these journalists
are controlled from above in some sort
of major conspiracy
the basic problem these journalists
committed journalists as they are have
had from the very beginning is that they
couldn't bring about a breakthrough that
this case is really recalcitrant the
evidence in this case and that's why
we're sitting here today the evidence in
this case remains fundamentally
recalcitrant to any single
interpretation so I just wanted to okay
thanks team yes let me without going to
I know we're going on a discussion of
the media tomorrow which should cover
some of this grant so I won't go too far
there until I take your point tink I'm a
little though you know skeptical about
decisions having been in the media all
of my life now worked for various
organizations where are those decisions
made if the working journalists want to
keep pushing
where are the certain decisions made at
what level to cut off that process and
in speaking of the New York Times
investigation there was a great story
done that Ray Marcus just sent me
actually in Rolling Stone in the 1970s I
believe mid-70s about the media coverage
of the assassination and went into that
New York Times team investigation led by
managing editor at Harrison Salisbury
and they quoted two or three of the
report
were on that team at least one of them
said we were getting good stuff and then
somehow the plug got pulled and they
they didn't know why or where but you
know he felt at least this one recorder
as I recall you know beat report for the
New York Times that they were coming up
with good stuff and somehow the plug got
pulled
anyway yes over here you ought to look
in both directions to see if the leet
supported the Warren Commission did you
find elite support for the Warren
Commission and did you find a pattern
and who was likely to support it and who
is likely to criticize it is there is
there an ideological bias and work here
as I said I found bipartisan skepticism
on both sides of the aisle I think
people's among the critics in the elite
of the Warren Report
I think the ideology comes to where they
think the conspiracy lay do you think it
was Castro do you think it was the
anti-castro Cubans and the CIA I think
that's where the ideological divide that
I most often see yes of course there
were a number of people who continued to
support the Warren Report leaks publicly
but I don't know what their private
feelings were these are the people I
mentioned today were the ones that I
know who have been documented as
privately expressing their skepticism
you probably someone else might be able
to say here people who've firmly
believed in the Warren Report inside
government who had some inside knowledge
about the Warren Report but I can't tell
you right now the woman right here won't
to say that I've been to many of the
conferences in Dallas I'm a native of
Dallas I saw the motorcade not the
assassination but the motorcade on the
22nd and have followed this avidly for
the past at least decade and one person
that definitely deserves to be noted
among the critics is John judge who has
convened the meetings year after year in
Dallas where the people who have come to
the
many in this room I feel they have
solved the assassination it's like a
huge jigsaw puzzle people have been
bringing their pieces to the table and
putting them on there they've been
finding the pieces of the puzzle lost
under the floorboards and bringing them
forward and I think it's been solved and
it's very complex you have to read and
dig and listen to the witnesses many as
we all know have been scores of people
have been killed
witnesses early on so I just do want to
add John's judges name to your list and
and ask that that work be acknowledged
that teamwork thank you a night I knew
when I made that list again I'm a
newcomer to the whole research area here
on this subject and I knew I was gonna
leave some people off and my apologies
to anyone I did who has been doing
important work in this field yes over
here with me but Gary Hart also had a
long paragraph in a book I think called
the right stuff he wrote that indicated
strongly that he believed there was a
larger force operating behind the
conspiracy it didn't say it in so many
words but it said it in between the
lines and I'm wondering about what you
were reading between the lines in your
recent was an interview with him yes it
was was he telling you or did he seem to
be wanting to tell you that maybe the
Donna rice incident had something to do
with this he that was an anonymous phone
call it's a good question it's a good
question I mean clearly he was saying
that as he told me that you can stop a
political figure who's troublesome
nowadays without a bullet and I can't
comment on the Donna rice you know
scandal that clearly did in his
presidential hopes he
I just can't go there but it's a good
question it said to you that it was
going toward that I just can't comment
on that he did tell me some things and
and he asked for some things to be off
the record what I quoted him here was
what he wanted to be quoted on the
record is saying yes right here can you
hear me yeah okay I really enjoyed your
presentation thanks for coming you
brought up President Clinton's intrigue
in the case I just want to know since
his eight years in office what were his
contributions and accomplishments of
anything of bringing out the case that's
a very good question I knew I would be
asked that all I know about Clinton and
his you know suspicions are curiosity
maybe it's just you know simple
curiosity about the assassination I just
reported to you it came from a Clinton
aide I can't tell you who it is again it
was off the record but I found it
intriguing that was one of the first
things that Bill Clinton was curious
about I think if you check the Deputy
Attorney General Hubbell in his book
indicates that when he was appointed to
his position that Clinton asked him to
find out about two things one of which
was the Kennedy assassination and the
other was flying saucers a huge tussle
and Clinton rather than standing with
the FBI forced him into negotiations and
ultimately gently nudged the FBI to
release documents particularly cuz the
FBI kept saying that by releasing this
information it would compromise sources
and methods the Review Board found a New
York Times article that in fact the
FBI's own studies show that it didn't
compromise sources methods to do the
kind of releasing they were doing and
ultimately a decision was for disclosure
so Clinton was I think at least helpful
in that way thank you yes
right here
yes I have a comment in a footnote
politicians as you Illustrated are
suspicious by Nature on the other hand
to be fair because I say this with
respect to all politicians good or bad
it's inconceivable that a working
politician could devote the kind of
concentration that is necessary to make
sense out of this case it just couldn't
happen it's a very complex case and and
but he could delegate others he could
yes not and I think that's true and I
think there's no reason why we should
assume that the political leader any
more knowledgeable than people in this
room and I think Max Hollander who I had
lunch with before I think max is here
but he would say the same thing I mean
of course he's been immersed in the
documents on LBJ for his book and I
think I don't want to speak for max but
I think he would say hey there's no
reason why we should put any more
credence in what LBJ had to say about
the assassination than any of us but
it's interesting isn't it I think you do
want to know what your leaders are
talking about privately about this
George HW Bush he had another reason to
be interested his name is in the address
book of George de Mohrenschildt complete
with a nickname poppy and I've also seen
an internal CA document in which George
HW Bush's director explains that he has
known George de Mohrenschildt since the
early 1940s right well obviously because
of his end because that he was running
the CIA he wanted to see how the CIA was
being discussed in briefly there's a
there's actually I think a much more
pertinent and pertinent point and that
is that according to FBI records on the
afternoon of the assassination of George
Herbert Walker Bush phoned in a suspect
in the Kennedy assassination
when this emerged later he couldn't
remember having done it and the CIA
ultimately tried to pin it on another
George Bush who dan Alcorn and I tracked
down and we got an affidavit from him
saying no that he wasn't the person
- in that memorandum uh-huh okay the
actual story thank you for reporting on
the documents we got on the freedom of
information case in 1988 sometimes you
don't think anyone pays any attention to
these cases so we appreciate you talking
about them but the actual circumstance
was that there is an FBI document that
reflects shortly after the assassination
that the FBI briefed mr. George Bush of
the CIA about the reaction of the Cuban
exile community in Florida to the
assassination and that's what prompted
the interest in whether this was George
Bush 4040 first president United States
or not at that point and we filed our
FOIA case of course the CIA generally
does not confirm or deny the identity of
their agents in this case they did
publicly release the name of another
George Bush that worked for the CIA in
1963 but they did so without contacting
him and telling him that his name was
about to be released to the media he was
not too happy about that
and we did we didn't actually interview
him and he said in no way whatsoever was
he the person referred to in this FBI
memo because he was a probationary
employee of CIA and only worked there a
few months they wouldn't let him even
answer the telephone because he was
essentially a messenger a paper delivery
man and he only worked at CIA for six
months and moved over to another agency
so that whole issue was left with
exactly that yeah today it's reported by
the way by George McBride in nation
magazine
great okay anybody else thank you for
your gracious personal reference I have
a question yes that I wrestled with over
the years and had the wonderful
opportunity of speaking briefly on this
with Senator Richard Schweiker from my
state
talking with George de Mohrenschildt in
his living room and with garrison and of
course all my wonderful colleagues over
the years and testimonies three times
under oath Federal Judge Charles Halleck
Rockefeller Commission the House Select
Committee and I've been involved in
politics on this side while I've been
devoting full time to the JFK
assassination ignoring my wife and kids
in my profession but I've dabbled a
little bit on politics here and there
and just even be a card-carrying member
of the ACLU although our yeah I went
with the Skokie ins and push me off the
line here's a question to you sir given
and I'm a Democrat and past chairman of
Democratic Party in my County and head
of the state committee delegation and
remember the Democratic National
Committee
that's my political background okay
given all of that given the New York
Times and the liberal news media and the
left-wing liberal news media in
particular and their problems and
concerns and anguish going back the
world war two incidents and Korea gate
and Watergate than the me ly scandal and
have discussed that too with a
professional colleague and re Rothblatt
attorney ratha and all of that and up
through the years everything Vincent
Foster and Ron Brown and Waco branch
division and have been involved in all
those cases - as a forensic pathology
consultant and all the way up to Abu
Ghraib tell me sir
reasonable people can disagree on the
pathology the radiology the
criminalistics the photography the
neurosurgery the spiked professor Ron's
dismissal disregard disrespect and this
involvement of all these other
professions on both sides my friend my
dear friend and colleague Michael Baden
and Henry Lee even people like Gerald
Posner invisible eoseo continue
according to Professor Ron
to just waste our time all of us on both
sides screwing around here with with all
of these things who gives a [ __ ] where
the holes are in or out you know what
Jerry Spence by the way or left lee
Bailey with dudes a professor running
the witness stand you'd have to bring in
kind of a special equipment to pick up
the little pieces of the dissection and
to mop up the blood from the floor that
was what happened to him in a murder
case okay nothing to worry about any of
that stuff just ignore it but tell me
this how is it that we seem to have had
over the years more concern more
puzzlement more more disenchantment a
greater cry for reviewing all of this
how is it that recognizing that there
are these honest differences opinion
which reasonable people can disagree
with in all of these professions how is
it that so early on to the continuing
day that the left-wing liberal people
who you would have thought I would have
thought would have seized upon this
seeming right-wing conspiracy whether it
did occur or not and I believe that it
did but whether it did occur that they
had no no interest they just accepted
they had no problem at all on how these
things were handled the autopsy here the
investigation there the way in which the
Warren Commission treated wood and no
problem just reaching out everything was
clear well it's a good question I get
what you've got Cheryl okay I see where
you're headed I I think it's a good
question and it's you know why why all
right
here's all I can tell you about that
I've wondered about it myself I come out
of a you know left media background I
was at Mother Jones in the 80s and now
of course I've started Salon and running
salon quite clearly a liberal
publication and I've wondered often why
left intellectuals the Noam Chomsky's
and and others didn't take up the
Kennedy investigation as a cause and Ray
Marcus actually enlightened beyond this
a bit I you know some of you are
familiar with Ray's monographs and he's
written about this and when he was
living in Boston I believe it was in the
late 60s he approached Howard Zinn Noam
Chomsky among others there were a couple
others as well I think and he asked them
directly you know to look into it and
they rebuffed him he said and my feeling
is that Kennedy came you know was not a
hero to these people that there is in
certain left-wing circles a feeling that
the Kennedys were cold warriors that
they were trying to get rid of Castro by
any means necessary that even to this
day you here in right-wing circles you
know there hasn't been a good tough
Democratic president since John Kennedy
meaning you know he was willing to kick
ass and topple governments and do
whatever was necessary for American
foreign interests so I think in some
left circles the Kennedys are anathema
the you know Bobby an and Jack both were
hardcore cold warriors who didn't
deserve to be you know supported and
protected yes in the back here
well I think that's for that reason I
just said in August of 63
he signed at the Cuban Missile Crisis
scared the hell out of everybody
including them besides the first nuclear
test ban treaty which I I have your view
I have a different view of the Kennedy
administration I think the Kennedy
administration was at war with itself is
my feeling or for two years before yeah
I think there were two strains within
the Kennedy administration I think they
collided and my sense is that in that
collision you can find some roots of
this assassination I think there were
two as I say you know two tracks on Cuba
clearly we know that there was a
back-channel using a bill out with the
diplomat at the UN former journalist
to pursue peace with Castro at the same
time where there was a still an
aggressive strategy to topple his
government and I think certain people in
the hardline felt that the Kennedys had
betrayed them and that's certainly been
documented I think very well right here
for Cuba committee and apparent
left-wing credentials of the Harvey
Oswald of pro-castro credentials and the
fact that the left-wing media may have
been a variable they closed down the
fair play for Cuba committee the
assassination did and maybe the nation
and some of the left we really felt so
grateful for having to let off the hook
remember we're coming right out of the
McCarthy era and it looked like it
MacArthur was going
there was a confined everything to the
strange precincts of Oswald psyche the
left-wing media Reyes he decided relief
possible you know that's getting into
any area that I'm afraid I don't have
much expertise on I think though it's a
fascinating subject but the left-wing
media did on the investigation on the
assassination in the 60s have to look at
Warren Hinkle and ramparts in some ways
was the you know one of my early
inspirations as a California journalist
and I think Warren Hinkle with Bill
Turner did some interesting work on the
assassination so I don't think all the
left-wing media decided that the you
know screw the Kennedys who cares if
they were killed but I think that was
the only attitude and some doctrinaire
left circles to articles originally
published by Alex Coburn in the nation
and after Alex Coburn gave up the issue
of key JFK and Vietnam max Holland here
took it up arguing that it was a fantasy
that Jack Kennedy was not going to have
Americanized the war well now we have
David Kaiser who's sitting in the
audience here who spent many many long
years in the files and Howard Jones who
published on Oxford University Press
published book called the death of a
generation in which I won't paraphrase
David Kaiser but I will paraphrase David
Jones cuz he's not here and you can't
blame me when I get it wrong but he says
that when he first heard the idea that
Kennedy wasn't going to Americanize the
war he thought that was a silly idea and
essentially the reason he apparently
wrote this book or a strong motivation
for it was that when he actually looked
at the files the evidence that Kennedy
was not going to Americanize the war was
so overwhelming that he had to write the
book to basically atone for his serious
misperception you and will not hear that
in the nation you'll never hear a
correction of that in the nation and and
nor will you hear that generally in
left-wing circles despite the fact that
I think that it's overwhelmingly now the
view of most people who know this
information that Jack Kennedy was
cleared yeah well you will in salon I
think the word my my own work said
Blumenthal's work Jamie Galbraith others
have I think abour but
view of the Kennedy administration and
think that it was grappling its way
towards I think every thinking of the
Cold War and before it was terminated
but I do think there were definitely
conflicting forces within the Kennedy
administration a hard-line force and a
more progressive force symbolized by
Theodore horns and among others Ted
Sorensen who wrote the American
University speech and I think Jim's
getting the hook yeah where we have a
short break scheduled and then we're
going to have an absolutely fascinating
program the rest of the afternoon
hopefully will match what David Talbott
has done and I think it I think it will
thank you David
here's what's ahead on c-span